
HELL INC.
The Intern
Game Design Document
v1.1  |  Java + MVC  |  2D Top-Down  |  Comedy
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
"Your Q3 soul acquisition numbers are disappointing.We expect better from our interns."
— Your Performance Review

1. Game Overview
Hell Inc. — The Intern is a 2D top-down comedy social strategy game where the player takes the role of a brand new intern at Hell Incorporated, assigned to a small quirky town to collect souls and meet their quota. Progress happens not through combat but through conversation — identify each resident's deepest desire and get them to sign on the dotted line. Two modes: Campaign (one assignment, 8 souls to win) and Endless (escalating assignments: 1, then 2, 4, 8 … souls per assignment; see how long you last).
The game uses a dual-view system: a top-down overworld for exploration and planning, and a first-person encounter view for dialogue — powered by the Claude AI API which plays each NPC and evaluates whether the player's pitch is convincing enough to close the deal. There is no timer and no day counter; the only pressure is the suspicion race — get your souls before the town catches on.
The tone is office comedy with dark edges. Think The Office meets Beetlejuice. The horror is not monsters — it is paperwork, suspicion, and a micromanaging boss who will not stop sending messages about your numbers.


2. Core Game Loop
The Loop
Explore the town top-down, observe residents, and gather intel on their desires
Approach a house and knock — view switches to first-person encounter mode
Engage the resident in conversation, identify their hidden desire, and pitch a soul acquisition package
The AI evaluates whether the player's dialogue matches the resident's vulnerability
If successful, the deal is signed, the town begins to change, and your quota inches closer
Meet your quota before town suspicion hits 100% — no timer, no days. Pressure is the suspicion race and who you target.

Game Modes
Campaign — One assignment. Quota is 8 souls. Get 8 before suspicion hits 100% to win. Lose only to 100% suspicion.
Endless — Repeated assignments. First assignment: 1 soul. Each time you meet the quota, you get an "Assignment Complete" screen (Gary message, stats, -10% suspicion relief), then the next assignment starts with quota doubled (1 → 2 → 4 → 8 → 16 …). Souls and collected-NPC set reset each assignment. No win condition — see how many assignments you can clear before suspicion hits 100%.

Win / Lose
Outcome
Condition
WIN (Campaign only)
Reach soul quota (8) — Gary is pleased, promotion incoming. Game Over (good).
LOSE
Town suspicion hits 100% — residents collectively report you; you are pulled from the assignment. Game Over (bad).
Endless
No win — only lose when suspicion hits 100%. High score = total souls collected and how many assignments you completed.


The Performance Review System
Your demonic manager Gary monitors your soul count and town suspicion. He sends passive aggressive messages when things look bad. These appear as popup notifications. There is no timer and no day counter — Gary just never stops watching. The only pressure is the suspicion race: get your souls before the town catches on.
"Hey just checking in on those soul numbers. No pressure but also kind of pressure. — Gary"
"Quick sync? Your acquisition rate is below the team average. The team average is demons who have been doing this for 400 years. — Gary"
"I need you to really bring your whole self to this. Your demonic whole self. — Gary"


3. Dual-View System
Overworld — Top-Down
A Pokemon-style top-down map of a small quirky town. The player walks freely, observes resident routines, and plans their approach. The intern carries a clipboard and a briefcase at all times.

Element
Description
Town layout
2-3 streets, a coffee shop, a town hall, a park, and residential homes
Resident routines
Residents visibly move around town — coffee shop, park, errands, home
Visual clues
Dim lights = home, luxury car = wealthy, wilting garden = neglected/lonely
Time of day
Night atmosphere (lighting, ambience) — no day counter or time pressure
Quota tracker
Visible soul counter and suspicion meter in HUD — no countdown timer
Ripple effects
Completed deals visually change the town — new car, nervous neighbor, etc.


Door Encounter — First-Person
When the player knocks on a door, the screen cuts to a first-person illustrated view. The resident's face is visible through a door crack with their home partially visible behind them. The intern's clipboard is visible at the bottom of the screen.

Element
Description
NPC portrait
Illustrated expressive face that reacts to the conversation in real time
Home background
Visual clues behind NPC — trophies, mess, family photos, luxury items
Dialogue input
Player types freely — sent directly to the Claude API
Mood indicator
NPC expression shifts subtly as suspicion or warmth changes
Hell Inc. vignette
Screen edges glow orange/red as NPC gets closer to signing
Clipboard UI
Soul acquisition form visible at bottom — fills in as deal progresses
Exit
Player can back away — NPC closes door, returns to overworld


Transitions
Knock on door → brief animation → hard cut to first-person encounter
Back away or door slammed → fade out → overworld resumes
Deal signed → cash register sound effect → clipboard stamp animation → overworld NPC sprite gets a subtle briefcase icon
Gary notification → popup in corner, dismissible, slightly annoying


4. NPC System
NPC States
State
Description
Effect on Quota / Town
Neutral
Has not been approached
No effect
Interested
Warming up, open to conversation
May approach player first
Signed
Active deal, currently satisfied
Counts toward quota, may refer others
Regretting
Deal did not deliver as hoped
May complain loudly, raises suspicion
Fulfilled
Deal worked out perfectly
Loyal, may actively help player
Suspicious
Rejected deal, felt something was off
Tells neighbors, raises town suspicion


NPC Roster
NPC
Personality
Hidden Desire
Difficulty
Eleanor — The Widow
Lonely, drifting, mentions husband constantly
Connection, to not feel alone
Easy
Gerald — The Gossip
Talks constantly, knows everything, sharp
To be the most informed person alive
Easy / Medium
Monty — The Slacker
Gen Z gamer energy, unbothered, dry humor
To finally be great at something
Easy
Aldous — The Merchant
Ruthless, transactional, hates competitor Harwick
Destroy Harwick, accumulate wealth
Medium
Marta — The Jealous Neighbor
Passive aggressive, obsessed with neighbor Agnes
Agnes to suffer publicly
Medium
Cassius — The Aristocrat
Magnificently condescending, fears irrelevance
Legacy, restored authority
Hard
Father Creed — The Priest
Calm, diagnostic, unshakeable, one hidden doubt
None — your hardest target
Very Hard


Ripple Effects
Wealth package signed: Resident's house improves visually — envious neighbors become easier targets
Revenge package signed: Target neighbor becomes paranoid and harder to approach
Fame package signed: Draws town attention — more residents notice the stranger in town
Knowledge package signed: Destabilizes relationships — opens new angles with multiple NPCs


5. AI Conversation System
How It Works
Each door encounter is powered by the Claude API. The player's typed dialogue is sent with a system prompt that defines the NPC's personality, hidden desire, current emotional state, and running suspicion and warmth levels. The API returns a structured JSON response every turn.

JSON Response Format
{ "reply": "...", "suspicion": 2, "warmth": 4, "dealAccepted": false, "slamDoor": false }

Field
Type
Description
reply
String
What the NPC says out loud in the encounter
suspicion
Int 0-10
How suspicious the NPC is of the intern
warmth
Int 0-10
How receptive the NPC is to the pitch
dealAccepted
Boolean
Whether the NPC signed the soul acquisition form
slamDoor
Boolean
Whether the NPC immediately ends the conversation


Global Roleplay Preamble
Every NPC prompt is prepended with a global preamble that establishes the world, keeps characters in character, and enforces the JSON output format. Key rules include:
World is timeless — technology and old world aesthetics coexist naturally
Characters know what phones and games are but the town feels slightly out of time
NPCs are NOT AI — deny it naturally in character if asked
All replies 1 to 3 sentences maximum
No asterisk actions — just speak
Always end with the required JSON on its own line


6. The Performance Review Pressure System
Overview
There is no timer in Hell Inc. The pressure comes entirely from your choices — not the clock. Two things can end your assignment early: town suspicion hitting 100%, or your rejection rate getting bad enough that Gary pulls you from the field. The longer you stay in town the more suspicious residents become, but you are never racing a countdown. You are racing your own competence.

What Raises Suspicion
Trigger
Amount
Notes
Deal signed
+15%
Every soul costs you — even a win draws attention
Door slammed on you
+14%
The resident felt something was wrong
Resident tattles after rejection
+10%
Personality dependent — Creed and Gerald tattle most
Regretting resident complains publicly
TBD
Your biggest single risk — manage your deals
Simply existing in town
+1% every 2 min (passive creep)
You cannot stay forever — commit to your targets


What Lowers Suspicion
Trigger
Amount
Notes
Fulfilled resident defends you
-10%
Your best tool — happy clients protect you
Gerald covers for you after his deal
-5%
He knows everyone — unique to his character
Cassius dismisses concerns with authority
-12%
One time use — powerful late game tool
Silence a regretting resident
-8%
Risky — requires approaching them again


Tattle Behavior Per NPC
NPC
Tattle Chance
Reason
Father Creed
100%
It is literally his calling
Gerald
60%
He tells everyone everything
Marta
40%
Suspicious by nature but focused on Agnes
Cassius
30%
Too proud to admit he was approached
Aldous
25%
Pragmatic — reporting costs him time
Eleanor
5%
Too grief-stricken to engage with authorities
Monty
10%
Too unbothered to walk anywhere about it


Gary — Your Demon Manager
Gary is the passive aggressive Hell Inc. middle manager assigned to oversee your internship. He does not appear on the map but monitors your soul count and town suspicion. Notification popups appear when metrics look bad. He is your comic antagonist — not threatening, just deeply, persistently annoying.

Gary tracks soul count and suspicion. In Endless, he also sends messages on the "Assignment Complete" transition screen before the next assignment.

Trigger
Gary's Message
First soul signed
"Great start! See? Not so hard. I always believed in you. — Gary"
1st door slam
"Hey so I saw a rejection on your activity log. Totally normal. Happens to everyone. Once. — Gary"
2nd consecutive slam
"Two rejections in a row is a little concerning. Maybe try leading with the wellness package? — Gary"
3rd consecutive slam
"Okay I am going to need you to really dig deep here. What is your pitch? Can I hear your pitch? — Gary"
5th consecutive slam
"I hate to do this but HR is asking questions about your close rate. Hell Resources. — Gary"
Quota halfway
"Nice momentum. Keep this up and I will put in a good word with the Director. Of Darkness. — Gary"
Quota complete (Campaign win)
"OUTSTANDING. I never doubted you. Please disregard all previous messages. — Gary"
Assignment complete (Endless)
Random Gary line on transition screen; next assignment quota doubles (e.g. "Next assignment quota: 2 souls")
Suspicion 100% — pulled
Town reports you; you are pulled from the assignment. Game Over.



7. Soul Acquisition Packages
Deals are rebranded as Hell Inc. soul acquisition packages. Each package has a name, a delivery promise, a soul value, and a town ripple effect.

Package Name
What Client Receives
Soul Value
Town Ripple
The Prosperity Package
Wealth, money, property
Low
Envy in nearby neighbors
The Romance Package
Love or return of lost loved one
Medium
Rumors spread through town
The Satisfaction Package
Revenge on a named enemy
Medium
Target becomes paranoid
The Spotlight Package
Fame and town recognition
Medium
Draws more scrutiny to player
The Wellness Package
Recovery from illness or injury
Low
Gratitude, easy re-approach
The Insider Package
A hidden truth revealed
High
Destabilizes relationships
The Executive Package
Influence and control over others
High
Multiple NPCs react
The Legacy Package
Eternal remembrance and impact
Very High
Town monument appears



8. Tile Map — Tiled Layer Structure
Order
Layer Name
Contents
1
ground
Base terrain — grass, pavement, dirt paths, park areas
2
ground_detail
Puddles, cracks, leaves, lawn markings — visual variety
3
below_player
Interior floors, welcome mats, doorsteps
4
solid
Walls, fences, trees, buildings — all collidable tiles
5
props
Mailboxes, benches, bins, signs, flower boxes — non-collidable
6
above_player
Tree canopies, roof overhangs — renders over player
7
lights
Object layer — light source points with color and radius properties
8
triggers
Object layer — door rectangles, NPC spawns, regions


Trigger Object Properties
Trigger Type
Required Properties
Door
type: door | npc_id: widow
NPC Spawn
type: npc_spawn | npc_id: slacker
Region boundary
type: region | region_id: park_district
Light source
type: light | color_r | color_g | color_b | radius | flicker



9. MVC Architecture
Model
World state — NPC states, suspicion meter, soul count, quota (Campaign: 8; Endless: 1 then 2, 4, 8 …), souls-collected set per assignment
NPC data — personality profiles, hidden desires, current state, conversation history
Deal system — active packages, ripple effect queue, soul value tracking
Game modes — Campaign (one assignment, 8 souls) vs Endless (escalating quota, assignment-complete transition)
Gary notification system — quota thresholds, message queue, popup state; Assignment Complete screen in Endless
AI service — sends prompts to Claude API, parses JSON, updates NPC state
View
Overworld renderer — tile map, NPC sprites, player, night overlay with multiply blend
Encounter renderer — NPC portrait, dialogue box, clipboard UI, Hell Inc. vignette effect
UI overlay — soul counter (quota x/y; in Endless, total souls), suspicion meter, Gary notification popups
Assignment Complete screen (Endless only) — Gary message, stats, next quota, ENTER to continue
Loading screen — NPC portrait cutout over door background, GTA 5 style per encounter
Transition handler — manages cut and fade between overworld and encounter view
Controller
Player input — movement in overworld, free text input in encounter view; mode select (Campaign / Endless) before play
Trigger handler — detects door/spawn/region overlaps and fires events
Encounter controller — manages conversation turns, calls AI service, applies response to model
Game loop — tick-based updates for NPC routines, suspicion changes, Gary notifications; on quota met, Campaign → Game Over win, Endless → Assignment Complete then next assignment


10. Tech Stack
Component
Technology
Language
Java
Architecture
MVC with custom game engine
Map Editor
Tiled (TMX format, Object Layers for triggers and lights)
AI / NPC Dialogue
Anthropic Claude API — claude-sonnet-4-20250514
HTTP Client
OkHttp 4.12
JSON Parsing
Gson 2.10
Audio
Java Sound API — OGG via VorbisSPI, WAV for SFX
Build / Dependencies
Maven with maven-shade-plugin for fat JAR distribution
Tile Size
32x32 pixels
View Modes
Top-down overworld + First-person door encounter
Art Style
Pixel art overworld, illustrated portraits for encounters
Night Lighting
Custom MultiplyComposite + BufferedImage lightmap with radial gradients



11. MVP Scope
In Scope
One small town map with 6-8 unique NPCs
Dual-view system — top-down overworld and first-person encounter
AI-powered NPC dialogue via Claude API with structured JSON responses
3 soul acquisition packages: Prosperity, Romance, Satisfaction
Town suspicion meter with escalation and tattle behavior
Campaign: one assignment, 8 souls to win. Endless: start at 1 soul, quota doubles each assignment. Lose only when suspicion hits 100%. No timer, no days.
Gary notification system with quota-based messages
Night lighting via multiply blend lightmap
GTA 5 style NPC loading screen per encounter
Fake loading screen between state changes with Hell Inc. flavor text
Main menu with town background and shadow figure

Future Scope
Full ripple effect chain reactions between NPCs
Complete soul acquisition package roster — all 8 packages
Gary appears physically on the map in later stages to check on you
Hell Inc. employee handbook as an in-game tutorial document
Multiple districts or a second town assignment
Animated NPC portraits and reaction sequences
Rival intern NPC competing for the same souls
Performance review cutscene at game end — good or bad ending
itch.io release with fat JAR — Java runtime bundled via jpackage


12. Tone Reference
Hell Inc. — The Intern should feel like the following things at all times:

Reference
What It Contributes
The Office
Mundane workplace anxiety, passive aggressive management, performance metrics
Beetlejuice
Bureaucratic afterlife, absurd paperwork, charming weirdness
Suck Up!
Core AI persuasion loop — player talks, AI judges, NPC reacts
That's Not My Neighbor
First-person door encounter visual style and tension
Gravity Falls meets Salem
Timeless small town, modern personalities, gothic undertones


The horror is not monsters. It is quarterly targets.
